{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2578
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww27520\viewh16080\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \'93Text\'94@Lesson@7Parts\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \'93 A Bear roaming the woods in search of berries happened on a fallen tree in which a swarm of Bees had stored their honey. The Bear began to nose around the log very carefully to find out if the Bees were at home. Just then one of the swarm came home from the clover field with a load of sweets. Guessing what the Bear was after, the Bee flew at him, stung him sharply and then disappeared into the hollow log. The Bear lost his temper in an instant, and sprang upon the log tooth and claw, to destroy the nest. But this only brought out the whole swarm. The poor Bear had to take to his heels, and he was able to save himself only by diving into a pool of water.\'94@1@4\
\'93 A Fox and a Leopard, resting lazily after a generous dinner, amused themselves by disputing about their good looks. The Leopard was very proud of his glossy, spotted coat and made disdainful remarks about the Fox, whose appearance he declared was quite ordinary. The Fox prided himself on his fine bushy tail with its tip of white, but he was wise enough to see that he could not rival the Leopard in looks. Still he kept up a flow of sarcastic talk, just to exercise his wits and to have the fun of disputing. The Leopard was about to lose his temper when the Fox got up, yawning lazily. \\\'94You may have a very smart coat,\\\'94 he said, \\\'94but you would be a great deal better off if you had a little more smartness inside your head and less on your ribs, the way I am. That's what I call real beauty.\\\'94\'94@2@4\
\'93 A Heron was walking sedately along the bank of a stream, his eyes on the clear water, and his long neck and pointed bill ready to snap up a likely morsel for his breakfast. The clear water swarmed with fish, but Master Heron was hard to please that morning. \\\'94No small fry for me,\\\'94 he said. \\\'94Such scanty fare is not fit for a Heron.\\\'94 Now a fine young Perch swam near. \\\'94No indeed,\\\'94 said the Heron. \\\'94I wouldn't even trouble to open my beak for anything like that!\\\'94 As the sun rose, the fish left the shallow water near the shore and swam below into the cool depths toward the middle. The Heron saw no more fish, and very glad was he at last to breakfast on a tiny Snail.\'94@3@4\
\'93 One bright evening as the sun was sinking on a glorious world a wise old Cock flew into a tree to roost. Before he composed himself to rest, he flapped his wings three times and crowed loudly. But just as he was about to put his head under his wing, his beady eyes caught a flash of red and a glimpse of a long pointed nose, and there just below him stood Master Fox. \\\'94Have you heard the wonderful news?\\\'94 cried the Fox in a very joyful and excited manner. \\\'94What news?\\\'94 asked the Cock very calmly. But he had a queer, fluttery feeling inside him, for, you know, he was very much afraid of the Fox. \\\'94Your family and mine and all other animals have agreed to forget their differences and live in peace and friendship from now on forever. Just think of it! I simply cannot wait to embrace you! Do come down, dear friend, and let us celebrate the joyful event.\\\'94 \\\'94How grand!\\\'94 said the Cock. \\\'94I certainly am delighted at the news.\\\'94 But he spoke in an absent way, and stretching up on tiptoes, seemed to be looking at something afar off. \\\'94What is it you see?\\\'94 asked the Fox a little anxiously. \\\'94Why, it looks to me like a couple of Dogs coming this way. They must have heard the good news and\'97\\\'94 But the Fox did not wait to hear more. Off he started on a run. \\\'94Wait,\\\'94 cried the Cock. \\\'94Why do you run? The Dogs are friends of yours now!\\\'94 \\\'94Yes,\\\'94 answered the Fox. \\\'94But they might not have heard the news. Besides, I have a very important errand that I had almost forgotten about.\\\'94 The Cock smiled as he buried his head in his feathers and went to sleep, for he had succeeded in outwitting a very crafty enemy.\'94@4@4\
\'93 A Dog asleep in a manger filled with hay, was awakened by the Cattle, which came in tired and hungry from working in the field. But the Dog would not let them get near the manger, and snarled and snapped as if it were filled with the best of meat and bones, all for himself. The Cattle looked at the Dog in disgust. \\\'94How selfish he is!\\\'94 said one. \\\'94He cannot eat the hay and yet he will not let us eat it who are so hungry for it!\\\'94 Now the farmer came in. When he saw how the Dog was acting, he seized a stick and drove him out of the stable with many a blow for his selfish behavior.\'94@5@4\
\'93 A hungry Wolf spied a Goat browsing at the top of a steep cliff where he could not possibly get at her. \\\'94That is a very dangerous place for you,\\\'94 he called out, pretending to be very anxious about the Goat's safety. \\\'94What if you should fall! Please listen to me and come down! Here you can get all you want of the finest, tenderest grass in the country.\\\'94 The Goat looked over the edge of the cliff. \\\'94How very, very anxious you are about me,\\\'94 she said, \\\'94and how generous you are with your grass! But I know you! It's your own appetite you are thinking of, not mine!\\\'94\'94@6@4\
\'93 One day as an Ass was walking in the pasture, he found some Grasshoppers chirping merrily in a grassy corner of the field. He listened with a great deal of admiration to the song of the Grasshoppers. It was such a joyful song that his pleasure-loving heart was filled with a wish to sing as they did. \\\'94What is it?\\\'94 he asked very respectfully, \\\'94that has given you such beautiful voices? Is there any special food you eat, or is it some divine nectar that makes you sing so wonderfully?\\\'94 \\\'94Yes,\\\'94 said the Grasshoppers, who were very fond of a joke; \\\'94it is the dew we drink! Try some and see.\\\'94 So thereafter the Ass would eat nothing and drink nothing but dew. Naturally, the poor foolish Ass soon died.\'94@7@4\
" A Mule had had a long rest and much good feeding. He was feeling very vigorous indeed, and pranced around loftily, holding his head high. \\\'94My father certainly was a full-blooded racer,\\\'94 he said. \\\'94I can feel that distinctly.\\\'94 Next day he was put into harness again and that evening he was very downhearted indeed. \\\'94I was mistaken,\\\'94 he said. \\\'94My father was an Ass after all.\\\'94\'94@8@4\
\'93 A Fox fell into a well, and though it was not very deep, he found that he could not get out again. After he had been in the well a long time, a thirsty Goat came by. The Goat thought the Fox had gone down to drink, and so he asked if the water was good. \\\'94The finest in the whole country,\\\'94 said the crafty Fox, \\\'94jump in and try it. There is more than enough for both of us.\\\'94 The thirsty Goat immediately jumped in and began to drink. The Fox just as quickly jumped on the Goat's back and leaped from the tip of the Goat's horns out of the well. The foolish Goat now saw what a plight he had got into, and begged the Fox to help him out. But the Fox was already on his way to the woods. \\\'94If you had as much sense as you have beard, old fellow,\\\'94 he said as he ran, \\\'94you would have been more cautious about finding a way to get out again before you jumped in.\\\'94\'94@9@4\
\'93 A very young Mouse, who had never seen anything of the world, almost came to grief the very first time he ventured out. And this is the story he told his mother about his adventures. \\\'94I was strolling along very peaceably when, just as I turned the corner into the next yard, I saw two strange creatures. One of them had a very kind and gracious look, but the other was the most fearful monster you can imagine. You should have seen him. \\\'94On top of his head and in front of his neck hung pieces of raw red meat. He walked about restlessly, tearing up the ground with his toes, and beating his arms savagely against his sides. The moment he caught sight of me he opened his pointed mouth as if to swallow me, and then he let out a piercing roar that frightened me almost to death.\\\'94 Can you guess who it was that our young Mouse was trying to describe to his mother? It was nobody but the Barnyard Cock and the first one the little Mouse had ever seen. \\\'94If it had not been for that terrible monster,\\\'94 the Mouse went on, "I should have made the acquaintance of the pretty creature, who looked so good and gentle. He had thick, velvety fur, a meek face, and a look that was very modest, though his eyes were bright and shining.\\" As he looked at me he waved his fine long tail and smiled. \\\'94I am sure he was just about to speak to me when the monster I have told you about let out a screaming yell, and I ran for my life.\\\'94 \\\'94My son,\\\'94 said the Mother Mouse, \\\'94that gentle creature you saw was none other than the Cat. Under his kindly appearance, he bears a grudge against every one of us. The other was nothing but a bird who wouldn't harm you in the least. As for the Cat, he eats us. So be thankful, my child, that you escaped with your life, and, as long as you live, never judge people by their looks.\\\'94\'94@10@4\
\'93 A Wolf had been prowling around a flock of Sheep for a long time, and the Shepherd watched very anxiously to prevent him from carrying off a Lamb. But the Wolf did not try to do any harm. Instead he seemed to be helping the Shepherd take care of the Sheep. At last the Shepherd got so used to seeing the Wolf about that he forgot how wicked he could be. One day he even went so far as to leave his flock in the Wolf's care while he went on an errand. But when he came back and saw how many of the flock had been killed and carried off, he knew how foolish to trust a Wolf.\'93@11@4\
\'93 A Peacock, puffed up with vanity, met a Crane one day, and to impress him spread his gorgeous tail in the Sun. \\\'94Look,\\\'94 he said. \\\'94What have you to compare with this? I am dressed in all the glory of the rainbow, while your feathers are gray as dust!\\\'94 The Crane spread his broad wings and flew up toward the sun. \\\'94Follow me if you can,\\\'94 he said. But the Peacock stood where he was among the birds of the barnyard, while the Crane soared in freedom far up into the blue sky.\'94@12@4\
\'93 Some Cranes saw a farmer plowing a large field. When the work of plowing was done, they patiently watched him sow the seed. It was their feast, they thought. So, as soon as the Farmer had finished planting and had gone home, down they flew to the field, and began to eat as fast as they could. The Farmer, of course, knew the Cranes and their ways. He had had experience with such birds before. He soon returned to the field with a sling. But he did not bring any stones with him. He expected to scare the Cranes just by swinging the sling in the air, and shouting loudly at them. At first the Cranes flew away in great terror. But they soon began to see that none of them ever got hurt. They did not even hear the noise of stones whizzing through the air, and as for words, they would kill nobody. At last they paid no attention whatever to the Farmer. The Farmer saw that he would have to take other measures. He wanted to save at least some of his grain. So he loaded his sling with stones and killed several of the Cranes. This had the effect the Farmer wanted, for from that day the Cranes visited his field no more.\'94@13@4\
\'93 A rich old farmer, who felt that he had not many more days to live, called his sons to his bedside. \\\'94My sons,\\\'94 he said, \\\'94heed what I have to say to you. Do not on any account part with the estate that has belonged to our family for so many generations. Somewhere on it is hidden a rich treasure. I do not know the exact spot, but it is there, and you will surely find it. Spare no energy and leave no spot unturned in your search.\\\'94 The father died, and no sooner was he in his grave than the sons set to work digging with all their might, turning up every foot of ground with their spades, and going over the whole farm two or three times. No hidden gold did they find; but at harvest time when they had settled their accounts and had pocketed a rich profit far greater than that of any of their neighbors, they understood that the treasure their father had told them about was the wealth of a bountiful crop, and that in their industry had they found the treasure.\'94@14@4\
\'93 Two Pots, one of brass and the other of clay, stood together on the hearthstone. One day the Brass Pot proposed to the Earthen Pot that they go out into the world together. But the Earthen Pot excused himself, saying that it would be wiser for him to stay in the corner by the fire. \\\'94It would take so little to break me,\\\'94 he said. \\\'94You know how fragile I am. The least shock is sure to shatter me!\\\'94 \\\'94Don't let that keep you at home,\\\'94 urged the Brass Pot. \\\'94I shall take very good care of you. If we should happen to meet anything hard I will step between and save you.\\\'94 So the Earthen Pot at last consented, and the two set out side by side, jolting along on three stubby legs first to this side, then to that, and bumping into each other at every step. The Earthen Pot could not survive that sort of companionship very long. They had not gone ten paces before the Earthen Pot cracked, and at the next jolt he flew into a thousand pieces.\'94@15@4\
\'93 There was once a Countryman who possessed the most wonderful Goose you can imagine, for every day when he visited the nest, the Goose had laid a beautiful, glittering, golden egg. The Countryman took the eggs to market and soon began to get rich. But it was not long before he grew impatient with the Goose because she gave him only a single golden egg a day. He was not getting rich fast enough. Then one day, after he had finished counting his money, the idea came to him that he could get all the golden eggs at once by killing the Goose and cutting it open. But when the deed was done, not a single golden egg did he find, and his precious Goose was dead.\'94@16@4\
\'93 Two Bulls were fighting furiously in a field, at one side of which was a marsh. An old Frog living in the marsh, trembled as he watched the fierce battle. \\\'94What are you afraid of?\\\'94 asked a young Frog. \\\'94Do you not see,\\\'94 replied the old Frog, \\\'94that the Bull who is beaten, will be driven away from the good forage up there to the reeds of this marsh, and we shall all be trampled into the mud?\\\'94 It turned out as the Frog had said. The beaten Bull was driven to the marsh, where his great hoofs crushed the Frogs to death.\'94@17@4\
\'93 A little hungry Mouse found his way one day into a basket of corn. He had to squeeze himself a good deal to get through the narrow opening between the strips of the basket. But the corn was tempting and the Mouse was determined to get in. When at last he had succeeded, he gorged himself to bursting. Indeed he became about three times as big around the middle as he was when he went in. At last he felt satisfied and dragged himself to the opening to get out again. But the best he could do was to get his head out. So there he sat groaning and moaning, both from the discomfort inside him and his anxiety to escape from the basket. Just then a Weasel came by. He understood the situation quickly. \\\'94My friend,\\\'94 he said, \\\'94I know what you've been doing. You've been stuffing. That's what you get. You will have to stay there till you feel just like you did when you went in. Good night, and good enough for you.\\\'94 And that was all the sympathy the poor Mouse got.\'94@18@4\
\'93 A Farmer walked through his field one cold winter morning. On the ground lay a Snake, stiff and frozen with the cold. The Farmer knew how deadly the Snake could be, and yet he picked it up and put it in his bosom to warm it back to life. The Snake soon revived, and when it had enough strength, bit the man who had been so kind to it. The bite was deadly and the Farmer felt that he must die. As he drew his last breath, he said to those standing around:\'94@19@4\
\'93 A Stag had fallen sick. He had just strength enough to gather some food and find a quiet clearing in the woods, where he lay down to wait until his strength should return. The Animals heard about the Stag's illness and came to ask after his health. Of course, they were all hungry, and helped themselves freely to the Stag's food; and as you would expect, the Stag soon starved to death.\'94@20@4\
\'93 One cold stormy day a Goatherd drove his Goats for shelter into a cave, where a number of Wild Goats had also found their way. The Shepherd wanted to make the Wild Goats part of his flock; so he fed them well. But to his own flock, he gave only just enough food to keep them alive. When the weather cleared, and the Shepherd led the Goats out to feed, the Wild Goats scampered off to the hills. \\\'94Is that the thanks I get for feeding you and treating you so well?\\\'94 complained the Shepherd. \\\'94Do not expect us to join your flock,\\\'94 replied one of the Wild Goats. \\\'94We know how you would treat us later on, if some strangers should come as we did.\\\'94\'94@21@4\
}