{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2578
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11020\viewh15940\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 @1@1@\'93Do not let anything turn you from your purpose.\'94@\'93THE WOLF AND THE KID\'94\
@2@1@\'93Foolish curiosity and vanity often lead to misfortune.\'94@\'93THE TORTOISE AND THE DUCKS\'94\
@3@1@\'93Do not tell others how to act unless you can set a good example.\'94@\'93THE YOUNG CRAB AND HIS MOTHER\'94\
@4@1@\'93Do not attempt the impossible.\'94\'94@\'93THE FROGS AND THE OX\'94\
@5@1@\'93Those who try to deceive may expect to be paid in their own coin.\'94@\'93THE DOG, THE COCK, AND THE FOX\'94\
@6@1@\'93It is one thing to say that something should be done, but quite a different matter to do it.\'94@\'93BELLING THE CAT\'94\
@7@1@\'93Do not let your vanity make you overestimate your powers.\'94@\'93THE EAGLE AND THE JACKDAW\'94\
@8@1@\'93Do not attempt too much at once.\'94@\'93THE BOY AND THE FILBERTS\'94\
@9@1@\'93Self help is the best help. Heaven helps those who help themselves.\'94@\'93HERCULES AND THE WAGONER\'94\
@10@1@\'93Do not say anything at any time that you would not say at all times.\'94@\'93THE KID AND THE WOLF\'94\
@11@1@\\Poverty with security is better than plenty in the midst of fear and uncertainty.\'94@\'93THE TOWN MOUSE AND THE COUNTRY MOUSE\'94\
@12@1@\'93There are many who pretend to despise and belittle that which is beyond their reach.\'94@\'93THE FOX AND THE GRAPES\'94\
@13@1@\'93In unity is strength.\'94@\'93THE BUNDLE OF STICKS\'94\
@14@1@\'93Expect no reward for serving the wicked.\'94@\'93THE WOLF AND THE CRANE\'94\
@15@1@\'93They who will not listen to reason but stubbornly go their own way against the friendly advice of those who are wiser than they, are on the road to misfortune.\'94@\'93THE ASS AND HIS DRIVER\'94\
@16@1@\'93They complain most who suffer least.\'94@\'93THE OXEN AND THE WHEELS\'94\
@17@1@\'93A kindness is never wasted.\'94@\'93THE LION AND THE MOUSE\'94\
@18@1@\'93Liars are not believed even when they speak the truth.\'94@\'93THE SHEPHERD BOY AND THE WOLF\'94\
@19@1@\'93We are often of greater importance in our own eyes than in the eyes of our neighbor. The smaller the mind the greater the conceit.\'94@\'93THE GNAT AND THE BULL\'94\
@20@1@\'93You are judged by the company you keep.\'94@\'93THE FARMER AND THE STORK\'94\
@21@1@\'93It is easy to be brave when there is no danger.\'94@\'93THE SHEEP AND THE PIG\'94\
@1@2@\'93We cannot expect any one to share our misfortunes unless we are willing to share our good fortune also.\'94@\'93THE TRAVELERS AND THE PURSE\'94\
@2@2@\'93Do not resent the remarks of a fool. Ignore them.\'94@\'93THE LION AND THE ASS\'94\
@3@2@\'93Be sure you can better your condition before you seek to change.\'94@\'93THE FROGS WHO WISHED FOR A KING\'94\
@4@2@\'93Flattery is not a proof of true admiration. Do not let flattery throw you off your guard against an enemy.\'94@\'93THE OWL AND THE GRASSHOPPER\'94\
@5@2@\'93Do not let your fancy make you forget realities.\'94@\'93THE WOLF AND HIS SHADOW\'94\
@6@2@\'93Better to yield when it is folly to resist, than to resist stubbornly and be destroyed.\'94@\'93THE OAK AND THE REEDS\'94\
@7@2@\'93A resemblance to the great in some things does not make us great.\'94@\'93THE RAT AND THE ELEPHANT\'94\
@8@2@\'93Always stop to think whether your fun may not be the cause of another's unhappiness.\'94@\'93THE BOYS AND THE FROGS\'94\
@9@2@\'93In a pinch a good use of our wits may help us out.\'94@\'93THE CROW AND THE PITCHER\'94\
@10@2@\'93There's a time for work and a time for play.\'94@\'93THE ANTS AND THE GRASSHOPPER\'94\
@11@2@\'93Do not try to take the credit to yourself that is due to others.\'94@\'93THE ASS CARRYING THE IMAGE\'94\
@12@2@\'93A change of habits will not alter nature.\'94@\'93A RAVEN AND A SWAN\'94\
@13@2@\'93It is better to yield than to come to misfortune through stubbornness.\'94@\'93THE TWO GOATS\'94\
@14@2@\'93The same measures will not suit all circumstances.\'94@\'93THE ASS AND THE LOAD OF SALT\'94\
@15@2@The least of our enemies is often the most to be feared. Pride over a success should not throw us off our guard.\'94@\'93THE LION AND THE GNAT\'94\
@16@2@\'93Deeds count, not boasting words.\'94@\'93THE LEAP AT RHODES\'94\
@17@2@\'93Precious things are without value to those who cannot prize them.\'94@\'93THE COCK AND THE JEWEL\'94\
@18@2@\'93Do not try to ape your betters.\'94@\'93THE MONKEY AND THE CAMEL\'94\
@19@2@\'93Preparedness for war is the best guarantee of peace.\'94@\'93THE WILD BOAR AND THE FOX\'94\
@20@2@\'93Traitors may expect treachery.\'94@\'93THE ASS, THE FOX, AND THE LION\'94\
@21@2@\'93The deceitful have no friends.\'94@\'93THE BIRDS, THE BEASTS, AND THE BAT\'94\
@1@3@\'93Those who have all the toil do not always get the profit.\'94@\'93THE LION, THE BEAR, AND THE FOX\'94\
@2@3@\'93The tyrant can always find an excuse for his tyranny. The unjust will not listen to the reasoning of the innocent.\'94@\'93THE WOLF AND THE LAMB\'94\
@3@3@\'93A knave's hypocrisy is easily seen through.\'94@\'93THE WOLF AND THE SHEEP\'94\
@4@3@\'93However unfortunate we may think we are there is always someone worse off than ourselves.\'94@\'93THE HARES AND THE FROGS\'94\
@5@3@\'93Do not play tricks on your neighbors unless you can stand the same treatment yourself.\'94@\'93THE FOX AND THE STORK\'94\
@6@3@\'93Do not let your hopes carry you away from reality.\'94@\'93THE TRAVELERS AND THE SEA\'94\
@7@3@\'93What is evil won is evil lost.\'94@\'93THE WOLF AND THE LION\'94\
@8@3@\'93We often make much of the ornamental and despise the useful.\'94@\'93THE STAG AND HIS REFLECTION\'94\
@9@3@\'93Do not sacrifice your freedom for the sake of pomp and show.\'94@\'93THE PEACOCK\'94\
@10@3@\'93Greatness has its penalties.\'94@\'93THE MICE AND THE WEASELS\'94\
@11@3@\'93Do not depend on the promises of those whose interest it is to deceive you. Take what you can get when you can get it.\'94@\'93THE WOLF AND THE LEAN DOG\'94\
@12@3@\'93Familiarity breeds contempt. Acquaintance with evil blinds us to its dangers.\'94@\'93THE FOX AND THE LION\'94\
@13@3@\'93The loud-mouthed boaster does not impress nor frighten those who know him.\'94@\'93THE LION AND THE ASS\'94\
@14@3@\'93Do not stop to argue with temptation.\'94@\'93THE DOG AND HIS MASTER'S DINNER\'94\
@15@3@\'93Borrowed feathers do not make fine birds.\'94@\'93THE VAIN JACKDAW AND HIS BORROWED FEATHERS\'94\
@16@3@\'93One falsehood leads to another.\'94@\'93THE MONKEY AND THE DOLPHIN\'94\
@17@3@\'93Stick to your trade.\'94@\'93THE WOLF AND THE ASS\'94\
@18@3@\'93The flatterer seeks some benefit at your expense.\'93@\'93THE MONKEY AND THE CAT\'94\
@19@3@\'93It is easy and also contemptible to kick a man that is down.\'94@\'93THE DOGS AND THE FOX\'94\
@20@3@\'93Do not try to do impossible things.\'94@\'93THE DOGS AND THE HIDES\'94\
@21@3@\'93The strong are apt to settle questions to their own advantage.\'94@\'93THE RABBIT, THE WEASEL, AND THE CAT\'94\
@1@4@\'93It is wiser to bear a single injury in silence than to provoke a thousand by flying into a rage.\'94@\'93THE BEAR AND THE BEES\'94\
@2@4@\'93A fine coat is not always an indication of an attractive mind.\'94@\'93THE FOX AND THE LEOPARD\'94\
@3@4@\'93Do not be too hard to suit or you may have to be content with the worst or with nothing at all.\'94@\'93THE HERON\'94\
@4@4@\'93The trickster is easily tricked.\'94@\'93THE COCK AND THE FOX\'94\
@5@4@\'93Do not grudge others what you cannot enjoy yourself.\'94@\'93THE DOG IN THE MANGER\'94\
@6@4@\'93An invitation prompted by selfishness is not to be accepted.\'94@\'93THE WOLF AND THE GOAT\'94\
@7@4@\'93The laws of nature are unchangeable.\'94@\'93THE ASS AND THE GRASSHOPPERS\'94\
@8@4@\'93Be sure of your pedigree before you boast of it.\'94@\'93THE MULE\'94\
@9@4@\'93Look before you leap.\'94@\'93THE FOX AND THE GOAT\'94\
@10@4@\'93Do not trust alone to outward appearances.\'93@\'93THE CAT, THE COCK, AND THE YOUNG MOUSE\'94\
@11@4@\'93Once a wolf, always a wolf.\'93@\'93THE WOLF AND THE SHEPHERD\'93\
@12@4@\'93The useful is of much more importance and value, than the ornamental.\'94@\'93THE PEACOCK AND THE CRANE\'94\
@13@4@\'93Bluff and threatening words are of little value with rascals. Bluff is no proof that hard fists are lacking.\'94@\'93THE FARMER AND THE CRANES\'94\
@14@4@\'93Industry is itself a treasure.\'94@\'93THE FARMER AND HIS SONS\'94\
@15@4@\'93Equals make the best friends.\'94@\'93THE TWO POTS\'94\
@16@4@\'93Those who have plenty want more and so lose all they have.\'94@\'93THE GOOSE AND THE GOLDEN EGG\'94\
@17@4@\'93When the great fall out, the weak must suffer for it.\'94@\'93THE FIGHTING BULLS AND THE FROG\'94\
@18@4@\'93Greediness leads to misfortune.\'94@\'93THE MOUSE AND THE WEASEL\'94\
@19@4@\'93Learn from my fate not to take pity on a scoundrel.\'94@\'93THE FARMER AND THE SNAKE\'94\
@20@4@\'93Good will is worth nothing unless it is accompanied by good acts.\'94@\'93THE SICK STAG\'94\
@21@4@\'93It is unwise to treat old friends badly for the sake of new ones.\'94@\'93THE GOATHERD AND THE WILD GOATS"\
@1@5@\'93One swallow does not make a summer.\'94@\'93THE SPENDTHRIFT AND THE SWALLOW\'94\
@2@5@\'93Be wise and shun the quack.\'94@\'93THE CAT AND THE BIRDS\'94\
@3@5@\'93Act in haste and repent at leisure\'97and often in pain.\'94@\'93THE DOG AND THE OYSTER\'94\
@4@5@\'93Take care of the little things and the big things will take care of themselves.\'94@\'93THE ASTROLOGER\'94\
@5@5@\'93In unity is strength.\'94@\'93THREE BULLOCKS AND A LION\'94\
@6@5@\'93Honesty is the best policy.\'94@\'93MERCURY AND THE WOODMAN\'94\
@7@5@\'93Those who seek to harm others often come to harm themselves through their own deceit.\'94@\'93THE FROG AND THE MOUSE\'94\
@8@5@\'93Be content with your lot.\'94@\'93THE FOX AND THE CRAB\'94\
@9@5@\'93An act of kindness is well repaid.\'94@\'93THE SERPENT AND THE EAGLE\'94\
@10@5@\'93The evil doer often comes to harm through his own deceit.\'94@\'93THE WOLF IN SHEEP'S CLOTHING\'94\
@11@5@\'93It is wicked to take advantage of another's distress.\'94@\'93THE BULL AND THE GOAT\'94\
@12@5@\'93Even the weakest may find means to avenge a wrong.\'94@\'93THE EAGLE AND THE BEETLE\'94\
@13@5@Take warning from the misfortunes of others.\'94@\'93THE OLD LION AND THE FOX\'94\
@14@5@\'93It all depends on the point of view, and who tells the story.\'94@\'93THE MAN AND THE LION\'94\
@15@5@\'93Behavior that is regarded as agreeable in one is very rude and impertinent in another. Do not try to gain favor by acting in a way that is contrary to your own nature and character.\'94@\'93THE ASS AND THE LAP DOG\'94\
@16@5@\'93Do not count your chickens before they are hatched.\'93@\'93THE MILKMAID AND HER PAIL\'94\
@17@5@\'93Men often condemn others for what they see no wrong in doing themselves.\'94@\'93THE WOLF AND THE SHEPHERD\'94\
@18@5@\'93Wicked deeds will not stay hid.\'93@\'93THE GOATHERD AND THE GOAT\'94\
@19@5@\'93A possession is worth no more than the use we make of it.\'94@\'93THE MISER\'94\
@20@5@\'93There is nothing worth so much as liberty.\'94@\'93THE WOLF AND THE HOUSE DOG\'94\
@21@5@\'93Better to bear a lesser evil than to risk a greater in removing it.\'94@\'93THE FOX AND THE HEDGEHOG\'94\
@1@6@\'93Set your sails with the wind.\'94@\'93THE BAT AND THE WEASELS\'94\
@2@6@\'93Those who would mend others, should first mend themselves.\'94@\'93THE QUACK TOAD\'94\
@3@6@\'93Do not listen to the advice of him who seeks to lower you to his own level.\'94@\'93THE FOX WITHOUT A TAIL\'94\
@4@6@\'93Notoriety is not fame.\'94@\'93THE MISCHIEVOUS DOG\'94\
@5@6@\'93Do not expect constancy in others if you have none yourself.\'94@\'93THE ROSE AND THE BUTTERFLY\'94\
@6@6@\'93Common sense is always worth more than cunning.\'94@\'93THE CAT AND THE FOX\'94\
@7@6@\'93Whatever you do, do with all your might.\'94@\'93THE BOY AND THE NETTLE\'94\
@8@6@\'93It is cowardly to attack the defenseless, though he be an enemy.\'94@\'93THE OLD LION\'94\
@9@6@\'93Too much attention to danger may cause us to fall victims to it.\'94@\'93THE FOX AND THE PHEASANTS\'94\
@10@6@\'93Misfortune is the test of true friendship.\'94@\'93TWO TRAVELERS AND A BEAR\'94\
@11@6@\'93Give a finger and lose a hand.\'94@\'93THE PORCUPINE AND THE SNAKES\'94\
@12@6@\'93The true leader proves himself by his qualities.\'93@\'93THE FOX AND THE MONKEY\'94\
@13@6@\'93Do not believe everything you hear.\'94@\'93THE MOTHER AND THE WOLF\'94\
@14@6@\'93Be not greedy for a little passing pleasure. It may destroy you.\'94@\'93THE FLIES AND THE HONEY\'94\
@15@6@\'93Everything is fair in love.\'94@\'93THE EAGLE AND THE KITE\'94\
@16@6@\'93Two blacks do not make a white.\'94@\'93THE STAG, THE SHEEP, AND THE WOLF\'94\
@17@6@\'93The weak are made to suffer for the misdeeds of the powerful.\'94@\'93THE ANIMALS AND THE PLAGUE\'94\
@18@6@\'93We are often not so eager for what we seek, after we have found it. Do not foolishly ask for things that would bring ruin if they were granted.\'94@\'93THE SHEPHERD AND THE LION\'94\
@19@6@\'93It is very foolish to be greedy.\'94@\'93THE DOG AND HIS REFLECTION\'94\
@20@6@\'93The race is not always to the swift.\'94@\'93THE HARE AND THE TORTOISE\'94\
@21@6@\'93Ability proves itself by deeds.\'94@\'93THE BEES AND WASPS, AND THE HORNET\'94\
@1@7@\'93Self-help is the best help.\'94@\'93THE LARK AND HER YOUNG ONES\'94\
@2@7@\'93The wise do not let themselves be tricked a second time.\'94@\'93THE CAT AND THE OLD RAT\'94\
@3@7@\'93The flatterer lives at the expense of those who will listen to him.\'94@\'93THE FOX AND THE CROW\'94\
@4@7@\'93In quarreling about the shadow we often lose the substance.\'94@\'93THE ASS AND ITS SHADOW\'94\
@5@7@\'93If you try to please all, you please none.\'94@\'93THE MILLER, HIS SON, AND THE ASS\'94\
@6@7@\'93A kindness is never wasted.\'94@\'93THE ANT AND THE DOVE\'94\
@7@7@\'93The man who talks for both sides is not to be trusted by either.\'94@\'93THE MAN AND THE SATYR\'94\
@8@7@\'93Two sureties are better than one.\'94@\'93THE WOLF, THE KID, AND THE GOAT\'94\
@9@7@\'93Friends in fine weather only, are not worth much.\'94@\'93THE SWALLOW AND THE CROW\'94\
@10@7@\'93Mother love is blind.\'94@\'93JUPITER AND THE MONKEY\'94\
@11@7@\'93Learn from the misfortunes of others.\'94@\'93THE LION, THE ASS, AND THE FOX\'94\
@12@7@\'93Might makes right.\'94@\'93THE LION'S SHARE\'94\
@13@7@\'93Boast of one thing and you will be found lacking in that and a few other things as well.\'94@\'93THE MOLE AND HIS MOTHER\'94\
@14@7@\'93Gentleness and kind persuasion win where force and bluster fail.\'94@\'93THE NORTH WIND AND THE SUN\'94\
@15@7@\'93Do not give your enemies the slightest reason to attack your reputation. Your enemies will seize any excuse to attack you.\'94@\'93THE HARE AND HIS EARS\'94\
@16@7@\'93Do not give up friends for foes.\'94@\'93THE WOLVES AND THE SHEEP\'94\
@17@7@\'93The wicked deserve no aid.\'94@\'93THE COCK AND THE FOX\'94\
@18@7@\'93A fool may deceive by his dress and appearance, but his words will soon show what he really is.\'94@\'93THE ASS IN THE LION'S SKIN\'94\
@19@7@\'93A small gain is worth more than a large promise.\'94@\'93THE FISHERMAN AND THE LITTLE FISH\'94\
@20@7@\'93Pride goes before a fall.\'94@\'93THE FIGHTING COCKS AND THE EAGLE\'94\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}